20_SAS ON Internet Connection Types


1. What is satellite networking?
One increasingly common form of internet connectivity is through satellite networking. This is where you would use a satellite dish to communicate with a satellite that’s in a low Earth orbit.


2. How does the cost of satellite connectivity compare to other forms of internet connectivity?
The costs of having satellite connectivity can be more expensive than something that might be terrestrial networking.


3. What are typical speeds for satellite internet?
50 megabits of speed down and three megabits of speed going up to the satellite.


4. What are some common uses for satellite internet?
A satellite internet connection uses a satellite to provide an internet signal that reaches from your internet service provider to your device.


5. What is latency when communicating with satellites in space?
250 milliseconds 


6. How does satellite internet compare to terrestrial internet when it comes to latency?
One of the higher speed terrestrial types of internet connection is fiber. 


7. What is a newer type of satellite network?
Starlink is newer satellite technology.


8. What is the latency time advertised by Starlink?
40 millisecond


9. What frequency range do satellite connections operate in?
Two gigahertz range


10. What is the cause of rain fade when using a satellite connection?
It means you’ll lose your connection while that rain is between you and the satellite.


11. What is the advantage of fiber optic links for internet connections?
These fiber optic links are great for internet connections because you can send a very large amount of information in a very short period of time.


12. Why is fiber optics more expensive than other internet connections?
Fiber optics tends to be more expensive because the equipment costs a bit more for fiber optics.


13. How is fiber optics used in enterprise networks?
In enterprise networks fiber optics connects your infrastructure devices and cores of your network together using this fiber optic technology.


14. How does running fiber optics to a home or business improve bandwidth?
It greatly improves bandwidth for your internet connections and gives you other options for sending and receiving information over these high speed links.


15. What is the method of communication used by cable broadband?
It brings an internet connection into your home or business using the same cable that you would use for cable television.


16. How does cable broadband transmit video, voice, and data?
On a single wire, we can transmit video, voice, and data simply by using different frequencies on that same medium.


17. Who might provide cable broadband service?
Cable company


18. What is the standard for sending data over cable networks?
It’s called DOCSIS. That stands for Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification.


19. What are the typical speeds of DOCSIS networks?
1 gigabit or even higher speed.


20. Do you need to bring additional cables or services into your home for DOCSIS?
No, you can use the same cable.


21. What is the technology that uses existing copper in a home?
DSL (Digital Subscriber Line)


22. What is the difference between the speed of download and upload on DSL?
Downstream speed of around 200 megabits per second and the upstream speed is limited to around 20 megabits per second.


23. What are the typical speeds of DSL networks?
Downstream speed of around 200 megabits per second and the upstream speed is limited to around 20 megabits per second.


24. What is the limitation of DSL in terms of distance?
There is about a 10,000 foot limitation for DSL.


25. What type of networks are commonly used for internet connectivity when away from home or office?
Cellular networks


26. How is internet connectivity provided through cellular networks?
802.11 network


27. What is tethering?
One way to provide this connection is through tethering, where we would physically connect to our phone via USB or through bluetooth and use our phone then as an internet connection.


28. What is a hotspot?
Many phones also support the ability to become a hotspot. So they would enable 802.11 capabilities and anything in range would be able to use that 802.11 network through your phone to access the internet. 


29. What is a WISP?
An ISP that is able to send information over a wireless network to your home. That would be WISP or a Wireless Internet Service Provider.


30. In what areas are WISPs commonly found?
WISP operates in rural areas or places where there’s not a large infrastructure already available to send internet traffic.


31. What are the typical speeds of wireless networks provided by WISPs?
These networks can operate up to 1,000 megabits per second.


________________


Section B


Q1. What Is Satellite Internet?
A. Satellite internet access or satellite broadband is internet access through communication satellites. 

Q2. What is fiber optic internet?
A. It is a broadband connection that can reach speeds of up to 940 megabits per second.

Q3. What is broadband internet?
A. It is a high speed internet access that is always on and faster than the traditional dial-up access.

Q4. What is DSL?
A.  The high-speed internet that you connect to via Wi-Fi or an ethernet cable through a modem is DSL internet. 

Q5. What is a cellular network?
A. It is most commonly the native connectivity method deployed with most cell phones, smartphones, and dial-up devices.

Q6. What is wisp internet?
A. It is an internet service provider that allows subscribers to connect the internet at designated hot spots or access points using a wireless connection such as Wi-Fi.