21_SAS ON NETWORK TYPES


1. What is a LAN?
A LAN is a Local Area Network. And although local is a relative term, this usually means devices that are in your building or group of buildings that are nearby. 


2. What are the typical network connections for a LAN?
The networks providing these high bandwidths usually are ethernet networks and 802.11 wireless networks.


3. What is a WAN?
If you’re communicating to a location that is in another city, another country, or somewhere else around the world, then you’re communicating over a WAN or a Wide area Network. 

4. Why are the speeds slower on a WAN compared to LAN?
Because of the distances involved in getting that signal from one location to another over such a long distance, these speeds are usually slower than what you might find on a local area network.


5. What are some examples of technologies used in a WAN?
This could be over a point to point serial connection, it could be through MPLS, or many other types of wide area network technologies.


6. How are WANs connected?
Wide Area Networks are connected with fiber that’s in the ground or you may be communicating to another location through a non-terrestrial or satellite link.


7. What is a PAN?
PAN is a Personal Area Network. It connects your phone to a pair of wireless earbuds.


8. What are some examples of technologies used in a PAN?
You might be using bluetooth, which is very common when connecting these earpods, or you might use infrared or NFC connections.


9. What is one of the most common ways to connect a personal area network?
Connecting your wireless headset. 


10. What type of telemetry can be acquired using a personal area network?
If you’re working out, you may be able to use a personal area network to communicate directly to the equipment. 


11. What is a Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)?
A metropolitan are network is a computer network that interconnects users with computer resources in a geographical region of the size of a metropolitan area. 


12. How does the distance of a MAN compare to that of a LAN and WAN?
The distances you would need to communicate to these sites are much longer than what you would find with a local area network but not as far as what you find with a wide area network.


13. What is the most common topology for connecting sites in a MAN today?
Today we see metro ethernet where you’re given an ethernet connection on both sides and the service provider provides the link between those locations. 


14. What type of organizations tend to use Metropolitan Area Networks?
Metropolitan area networks tend to be very common for governments because they already have the right of way to be able to put conduit in the ground and extend fiber connections between all of their remote sites. 


15. What is a Storage Area Network (SAN)?
A SAN is a high speed network that allows us to communicate to a centralized storage facility, usually one with a very large capacity.


16. How is data accessed on a SAN?
This provides block level access, which is very similar to the block level access we have on our local storage devices, which means it’s very efficient to read and write to that SAN.


17. What is the typical bandwidth requirement for a SAN?
Very high bandwidth


18. Are SANs isolated on their own networks?
Yes they’re often isolated on their own high speed networks.


19. What is a Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)?
If you’re communicating wirelessly to a network that’s in your building, you’re probably using an 802.11 network on a Wireless Local Area Network. 


20. What is the range of a WLAN?
These wireless networks don’t have a very large range, so you often see them used inside of a building or a localized area. 


21. How can the size of a WLAN be extended?
If you needed to extend beyond those distances, then you would usually add additional access points to be able to extend the total size of the wireless local area network.


22. How do WLANs differ from other wireless networks?
WLANs use wireless access points to transmit data between devices, allowing for greater mobility and flexibility. 
________________
Section -B  Q&A Network Types


Q1. What is a LAN?


A.


Q2. What is a WAN network?


A. 


Q3. What is a PAN network?
A. 


Q4. What is MAN network?
A. 


Q5. What is a SAN network?
A. 


Q6. What is WLAN network?
A.