DV500_5_SAS Mobile Device Accessories
Self-Assessment Sheet


1. If you are someone who takes your laptop back and forth between work and home, what’s a good solution for you to minimize all the plugging and unplugging of cables used for devices such as printers, keyboards etc.?
Ans  One way to minimize all of this plugging and unplugging of cables is to use a docking station.


2. What does TRRS stand for? 
Ans Tip-Ring-Ring-Sleeve


3. What is one of the challenges our mobile phones and tablets have with speakers that are built in?
Ans The speakers inside of those devices are very, very small. So if you like better sound from your mobile devices, you want to use a set of external speakers.


4. What are the functions of a stylus?
Ans  Stylus allows you to manipulate and activate the interface on these devices without physically touching the screen with your hand.


5. Can you disable the mouse track pad on your laptop while using an external mouse?
Ans Yes, on some laptops you’re able to disable the trackpad through the built in function keys.


6. If you need to perform very precise functions or be able to do something very specific on the screen, you may want to try using?
Ans  A touch pen.


7. If you’re an artist or someone who wants to perform more precise work on a tablet, you may want to try using an?
Ans Active stylus


8. A digital stylus provides you with more functionality and more precise usability than something like a capacitive touch pen. True or False?
Ans True


9. The stylus is not able to communicate independently with the device that’s being used if those two devices are not touching each other. True or False?
Ans   False (The stylus is able to communicate independently).
 
10.  If you’re using an Apple iPad, you would need to use what type of pen?
Ans Apple pencil


11.  Using an active stylus you can see as the user is writing on the screen and they apply a little more pressure, then you can see that the difference in the line width changes. True or False?
Ans   True


12.  What if you’re using a computer that doesn’t have any type of capacitive display or any type of active touchscreen that you can interact with?
Ans  In those case, you can add a touchscreen capability with an external drawing pad.


13.  Do laptops include an external mouse?
Ans Laptop doesn’t have any external mouse that comes with it.


14.  Can you add an external keyboard and mouse on a Mac?
Ans Yes


15. Can you customize exactly the way the trackpad works on your system?
      Ans Yes

16.  What does TRRS do?
Ans This is an analog audio jack that takes the information you’re talking into your microphone or audio that you need to hear and sends it through the copper connection that’s plugged into the device. 


17. If you’re an Apple user, you may not have the option of a USB or a 3- and 1/2-millimeter audio connection. True or False?
Ans True (Instead you may be able to use the Lightning port that’s built into that iPhone or iPad.)


18.  What port does apple have?
Ans Lightning port 


19.  What’s one alternative method an apple user can connect to headphones without the 3.5 mm jack?
Ans   Instead you may be able to use the Lightning port that’s built into that iPhone or iPad.


20.  If you like a simpler form of connecting and disconnecting your laptop, you may want to use something like?
      Ans  Port replicator