DV500_3_SAS On Laptop Displays
Self-Assessment Sheet


1. What does LCD stand for?
Ans LCD stands for liquid crystal display.


2. What is a disadvantage in LCD?
Ans Disadvantage in LCD is light source in the back has to shine through to provide the color, which means getting a true black can be quite difficult on an LCD display.


3. What are three different technologies of liquid crystal displays?
Ans TN LCD - Twisted Nematic LCD.
        IPS LCD - In Plane Switching.
        OLED - Organic Light Emitting Diode.

4. If you’re looking for the best possible color representation on an LCD display, you’ll want to use?
Ans IPS LCD


5. If you’re looking for the best possible response you’ll want to?
Ans  TN LCD


6.  If you’re a gamer or using some application that has fast moving graphics, what type of LCD should you use?
Ans TN LCD


7. What LCD gives you very good color representation, which is great for using graphics or doing some type of desktop publishing?
Ans OLED 


8. What does TN LCD stand for?
 Ans Twisted Nematic 


9. What does IPS LCD stand for?
Ans  In Plane Switching


10. What does VA display stand for?
Ans Vertical Alignment


11.  What is the newest from of display?
Ans OLED




12.  What does OLED stand for?
Ans Organic Light Emitting Diode


13.  OLED has a backlight. True or False?
Ans False, It doesn’t have a backlight.


14.  In older laptops, you may find that the backlight that it’s using is.
Ans  CCFL (Cathode Fluorescent Lamp)


15. Newer LCD displays might use what type of lights instead of using a fluorescent lamp?
Ans Newer LCD displays might use LED lights instead of using a fluorescent lamp.


16. What component in your device may only allow for stylus input, or it might also provide input using a touch screen?
Ans Digitizer in my device may only allow for stylus input, or it might also provide input using a touch screen.


17.  What type of display does not have liquid crystals?
Ans OLED display does not have liquid crystals.


18.  Why are OLEDs so thin?
Ans Organic material that’s able to create its own light when you provide it with power. 


19.  In OLED displays, you need glass on the front screen to protect it? True or False?
Ans False.


20.  How does OLED work?
Ans OLED works because organic material emits light when you provide it with a current.