DV500_8_SAS On Mobile Device Configuration
Self-Assessment Sheet


1. What is Microsoft cloud-based services called?
Ans Microsoft 365


2. What is apples cloud service called?
Ans iCloud


3. What is an advantage to using iCloud?
Ans It provides you access to configure synchronization options.


4. On iCloud are you able to select what you want synchronized?
Ans De-select what information you’d like to upload to the cloud and things you may want to keep local on your individual device.


5.  Is iCloud used for backups?
Ans   Yes


6. Can you use iCloud with Microsoft?
Ans  iCloud is limited to Apple devices. 


7. There are limited synchronization options for iCloud. True or False?
Ans  Yes


8. If you lose your iPhone, how can you access your data and is it backed up?
Ans Simply log into a new phone with your iCloud credentials, and all of this information will be automatically downloaded and synchronized with your new device.


9. With Microsoft 365, you can only synchronize the email between your mobile device and other email systems you use. True or False?
Ans False ( you can also configure and synchronize contacts, calendars, reminders, and notes).


10.  What is outlook a part of?
Ans Microsoft 365


11.  Can you sync your calendars across all devices using Microsoft 365?
Ans Yes


12.  If you’re running your own exchange servers, what service are you using?
Ans Microsoft Outlook or Microsoft Exchange


13. Is there a way if you create a note on your mobile phone, the note automatically appears on Microsoft 365 on your desktop and vice versa?
Ans  Yes, with Microsoft 265

14.  To connect to iCloud, you would use your iCloud.
Ans Username and Password


15. Where can you access your iCloud settings?
Ans  System settings or system preferences
 
16.  There are extensive configuration settings for iCloud, but you can’t control exactly what data is synchronized. True or False?
Ans  False ( you can still control exactly what data is synchronize)


17.  You can use iCloud to sync your emails across all your IOS devices. True or False?
Ans True


18.  Can configure the system to allow cellular transfers or only allow transfers over faster 802.11 networks?
Ans  Yes


19. You can enable and disable different network connections or control the use of exactly how you download when you’re on a cellular network. True or False?
Ans True


20.  Using cellular networks, you can’t download files. True and False and explain?
Ans  Cellular data can be set to automatically download or not download, and you can set exactly how much data can be transferred over that cellular network.