39_SAS_On Motherboard Compatibility 
Self-Assessment Sheet


Q1. What is the first decision you need to make while building a computer? 
Ans: One of the first decisions you’ll need to make are whether this will be an Intel-based motherboard or an AMD-based motherboard.


Q2. What factors should you consider when choosing a motherboard and CPU? 
Ans: Depending on whether they are Intel-based or AMD-based.


Q3. Is it possible to switch between an Intel CPU and an AMD CPU? 
Ans: No, it’s not possible.


Q4. What are the differences between AMD and Intel CPUs? 
Ans: The CPUs very different in how they are designed and how they operate, but the sockets themselves are very different between the manufacturers.


Q5. What should be checked when selecting a CPU? 
Ans: You’ll have to check the specifications for your motherboard and your CPU to see if you’re getting exactly what you want out of that system.


Q6. How do you install a CPU? 
Ans: The installation of the CPU is very similar, regardless of which manufacturer’s motherboard you go with. Usually, there’s a cover that holds the CPU in place. You would lift that cover, simply place the CPU into the socket, and then bring the cover back down to lock it in place.


Q7. Is there a different installation process for server CPUs? 
Ans: Yes


Q8. How many slots are available on a server motherboard? 
Ans: At Least four slots available for memory.


Q9. What type of device are server motherboards typically found in? 
Ans: Rack-mounted device


Q10. What is typically installed in a rack-mounted device? 
Ans: Usually, you’re installing into one of these cases a motherboard and a power supply that’s designed to fit into this smaller form factor.


Q11. What features are present in the older server motherboard? 
Ans: It has two separate CPUs, has some expansion slots available, and four slots available for memory.


Q12. What features are present in the newer motherboard? 
Ans: It also supports two separate CPUs. There are six slots available for memory. And then you have expansion slots also available on the motherboard.


Q13. What type of computer system do people generally have? 
Ans: Desktop and laptop


Q14. How many memory slots are usually available for additional RAM? 
Ans: There are two or four memory slots for additional RAM.


Q15. Are there usually expansion slots available? 
Ans: There might be one or two expansion slots.


Q16. What type of motherboard might be used for a very small form factor desktop system? 
Ans: The CPU, one slot for memory, and one slot for expansion.


Q17. What features are important in a laptop motherboard? 
Ans: The motherboard you have in a laptop tends to be very small and very light.


Q18. What is the focus of laptop CPUs? 
Ans: The CPUs in a laptop are not necessarily designed for speed but instead usage and efficiency.


Q19. What can one do with a desktop system that cannot be done with a laptop? 
Ans: Laptops are also much less customizable than a desktop system.


Q20. How does laptop motherboard replacement differ from desktop motherboard replacement? 
Ans: In a laptop, it’s very difficult to gain access to all of that inside of the system. So on your laptop, you may not have many options available for memory upgrades, any changes to the CPU, or modifying or adding on any additional features to the existing motherboard. 


Q21. What do you have to do if you need to replace the motherboard in your Laptop? 
Ans: If you need to replace the motherboard, you have to replace it with the exact type of motherboard design for that laptop.


Q22. Since your interfaces, your CPU, your memory, and other features are part of that system board, if any part of that happens to stop working, you’ve got to replace the entire motherboard. (True/False)
Ans. True