36_SAS_On RAID 
Self-Assessment Sheet


Q1. What is used to store large amounts of information? 
Ans: Hard drives are used to store large amounts of information. 


Q2. What can happen to hard drives eventually? 
Ans: Because there are moving parts inside of these drives, they will eventually fail.


Q3. What can be done to ensure data remains available if a drive fails? 
Ans: RAID arrays can be configured to provide this type of data redundancy.


Q4. What is RAID? 
Ans: RAId is a very good way to backup your data. It is the data that you are actively retrieving and storing.


Q5. What does RAID stand for? 
Ans: RAID stands for Redundant Array of Independent Disks.

Q6. What is the difference between earlier versions of RAID and the current version? 
Ans: Earlier versions of this acronym used the word Inexpensive Disks instead of Independent, but effectively the same idea. 


Q7. Do all RAID levels provide redundancy? 
Ans: There are some RAID levels that do not provide redundancy.


Q8. We referred to different types of RAID as ____________.
Ans. Levels


Q9. What is RAID 0 or striping? 
Ans: We refer to this as striping because we have at least two drives in a RAID 0 array. And instead of writing everything to one drive or everything to the other drive, we take all of our data and we split it evenly between these two drives.


Q10. What is the benefit of splitting a single file across multiple drives? 
Ans: The single file will be split evenly between these two disks. So block one is on disk 0. Block 2 is on disk 1. 


Q11. What is the problem with RAID 0? 
Ans: If we lose one of these drivers, none of this data will now be available because you’ve effectively lost half of the data that you’ve stored.


Q12. How is RAID 1 different from RAID 0? 
Ans: RAID1 we are duplicating data between both of these drives. So each drive effectively is a mirror image of the other.


Q13. What is the benefit of having duplicate drives? 
Ans: If we lose either of these physical disks, our data remains available because we have an exact duplicate of the data on the other disk.


Q14. What is the consequence of having duplicate drives? 
Ans: We will effectively need twice as much storage to be able to store this same amount of information.


Q15. : What is RAID 5? 
Ans: RAID 5 is a method which we call striping parity. 


Q16. How does RAID 5 work? 
Ans: We take all of the information that we’re storing and we put pieces of that data across different drives.


Q17. What is the purpose of RAID 5? 
Ans: The parity information allows us to rebuild this data if we happen to lose any of these physical drives.


Q18. What happens if a single drive is lost in a RAID system? 
Ans: It may seem that losing a single drive will also cause some of our data to be lost.


Q19. What is RAID 10? 
Ans: RAID 10 is also referred to as RAID 1 plus 0 or a stripe of mirrors. 


Q20. What does a RAID 0 configuration look like? 
Ans: We have RAID 0 with three separate physical drives. And you can see that we are evenly distributing our files across all three of those individual drives.


Q21. What is RAID 1 plus 0? 
Ans: It is a stripe of mirrors.


Q22. What are the benefits of RAID 1 plus 0? 
Ans: With RAID 1 plus 0, we add on the RAID 1 part of the mirroring aspect and we start mirroring all of our RAID 0 arrays.