DV500_62_SAS_Troubleshooting Video and Display Issues
Self-Assessment Sheet


Q1. What could be the cause of no signal from a video display? 
Ans: It's possible that you have the cable that has been disconnected, or perhaps a cable has been changed. 


Q2. How can the issue  of no signal from a video display be resolved?
Ans: If you check the connectivity and reseat the cables, it’s possible that the issue would be resolved. 


Q3. What should you do if the image on the display is very dim? 
Ans: It may be that the brightness or contrast needs to be turned up on the display. 


Q4. What should you do if you are getting a black screen when you start the Windows operating system? 
Ans: You may want to choose the option for VGA mode, which you can access by pressing F8 during the windows start up process. 


Q5. What might you be able to see on a display with a black screen? 
Ans: You may be able to see some information on the screen. 


Q6. What should you check if you're using a VGA connection? 
Ans: You might want to check the individual pins of the video connection itself. 


Q7. How can I fix a distorted or misaligned display? 
Ans: You may check the configuration settings in the operating system.


Q8. What does the documentation for the monitors tell you?
Ans. It will tell you exactly what resolutions and what refresh rates are supported by that device. 


Q9. What if your video adapter supports hardware acceleration?
Ans. You may want to try disabling that temporarily to see if that resolves some of these display issues. 


Q10. What is a challenge when working with LCD displays? 
Ans: There are a fixed number of pixels on that display. 


Q11. What is the best way to get a sharp picture on an LCD display? 
Ans: If you match the native resolution of that display, you will have the sharpest picture available on that output. 


Q12. What does it mean when some letters are larger and more blocky than other letters in an output? 
Ans: This usually indicates that the wrong resolution is being used, and we might want to change our resolution to better match the capabilities of the monitor. 


Q13. What should be done if you don't want to use the native resolution of a display? 
Ans:  Then use one that is a factor that is compatible with that native resolution. 


Q14. Give one example to describe this statement “ if you don't want to use the native resolution of a display” .
Ans. If the native resolution was 2560 by 1600, you could use the resolution of 1920 by 1200 because that is exactly the same ratio in both of those resolutions. 


Q15. What is the problem of “burn-in”? 
Ans: This is when you have a single image on the screen that stays for a very long time and it stays for so long that when you remove that image from the screen that a portion of the ghost of that image is left on the display. 


Q16. What is pixel-shift technology? 
Ans:  Some displays have a technology known as “pixel-shift” built into the display to help prevent this. 


Q17. On LCDs you may see this burn-in referred to as ____________.
Ans. “Image sticking”.


Q18. How can you clean the screen from a stuck image? 
Ans:  One way to clean the screen from the struck image is to display a white screen or an extended period of time. 


Q19. What are dead pixels? 
Ans: We refer to these as “dead pixels” because they never show any type of color other than black. 


Q20. Is there a way to fix a dead pixel on an LCD monitor? 
Ans:  There’s no way to go into the monitor and somehow enable that one pixel. 


Q21. What causes flickering of the image? 
Ans: Display drivers.


Q22. How do you fix a monitor that is flickering? 
Ans: Replacing the cable is a very quick fix and it often resolves this issue. 


Q23. What if there’s a difference between the capabilities of the monitor and what you’re sending to that monitor through the driver?
Ans. Then you may get flickering with the output.


Q24. How can you fix the issue when the output that is shown is the wrong color?
Ans. There might be one particular color that’s shown more than another, or the whole mix of colors on the screen may be incorrect. 


Q25. Does the operating system modify the colors depending on the time of day? 
Ans: Yes it does.


Q26. What is important to know when using a monitor with built-in speakers? 
Ans: If you’re having some type of audio problem, we need to adjust our display to resolve that problem. 


Q27. How can you adjust the brightness and contrast settings on a monitor? 
Ans: They’re usually configurations on the monitor that allow you to modify what these values are, and you can adjust them to match the lighting of your work area. 


Q28. What can cause a display to be black? 
Ans: If you look closely you can almost see the display being shown, then you might have a backlight failure. 


Q29. What happens when the backlight fails and how will you resolve it? 
Ans: If that backlight fails, it will be very difficult to make out anything that’s being displayed. 

Q30. What is an LCD projector? 
Ans: You commonly see these used in environments where you need to have a lot of people viewing the information that’s on one single screen. 


Q31. Is the lamp inside projectors a hot light? 
Ans: It’s a very bright light, it tends to also be a very hot light. 


Q32. What kind of lamp is inside projectors? 
Ans:  Bright lamp. 


Q33. Why is it a best practice to leave the fan running when you turn off an LCD projector? 
Ans: This allows the lamp to cool down slowly and hopefully extends the lifetime of that individual lamp. 


Q34. What should you do if the LCD projector intermittently shuts down and goes completely black but the fan continues to run? 
Ans: Then you may have a situation where there’s a cooling problem. 


Q35. How can I improve the airflow in my projector?
Ans: Some projectors also have air filters built into them and you may need to replace those filters to have a better airflow through the system.