59_SAS_How to Troubleshoot 


Q1. What can you do when working with your computer at home? 
Ans: When you’re working with your computer at home, you can decide to perform an operating system upgrade or modify something on your network without going through a large set of processes and procedures. 


Q2. What is a formal change control process? 
Ans: This means if you want to make a change to an application or an operating system, you’ll need to follow these very specific guidelines in order to make that modification.


Q3. What is the benefit of having a formal policy for making changes? 
Ans: If there’s any problems with making that change, it gives you options for rolling back to a previous configuration. This is usually part of a formal corporate policy. 


Q4. What is a change control environment? 
Ans: A common change control environment might include the process for planning for the change that you’d like to make, estimating any risks associated with making that change on the network, having a recovery plan if something goes wrong during the implementation of that change. 


Q5. What steps should be taken before making an actual change? 
Ans: Before making the actual change, we would run tests in the lab and perform a number of simulations to see what the effects might be. 


Q6. What is the Troubleshooting Process? 
Ans: Every time we’re presented with some type of problem that needs to be solved, there’s a standard flow that we can go through to help troubleshoot this particular issue. 


Q7. How does the troubleshooting process start?
Ans: It starts with a system or application that may be broken, and takes us all the way through the process to where we would fix or resolve whatever issue that might be. 


Q8. What is the first step in the troubleshooting process? 
Ans: The first step in this troubleshooting process is to collect as much information as possible about the problem.


Q9. How is the first step of the troubleshooting process useful?
Ans: It may be useful to get screenshots of the error occurring or a list of area messages that are provided to the user. 


Q10. Why might it be beneficial to reach out to the user over the phone? 
Ans: They can sometimes tell you more over the telephone about the issue than you would have ever received in an email.


Q11. What should we do if we want to see if anything may have changed in the environment from the time that this was working until the time that this problem was reported?
Ans. It might also be good to look at your records to see if anything may have changed in the environment from the time that this was working until the time that this problem was reported. 


Q12. What is the best way to approach a troubleshooting process? 
Ans: If you break all this down into smaller pieces and approach each symptom as its own individual problem, you’ll have a better method of stepping through each one of these issues and resolving all of the problems. 


Q13. What should be done before continuing with the troubleshooting process? 
Ans: Before continuing with the rest of this troubleshooting process, this might be a good time to take backups of everything that you have. 


Q14. What documents should be consulted to identify a potential issue with an application? 
Ans: It might also be good to look at documentation from the change control board to see what may have changed in the environment that the users may not know about. 


Q15. What does Occam's razor tell us?
Ans. Occam’s razor tells us that the simplest explanation is often the most likely. 


Q16. What should we do when trying to determine the root cause of an application issue? 
Ans: We might put the more obvious causes at the top of the list, and then put the more unusual root causes lower in that list. 


Q17. What should be done if all of the theories on the list have been tried and the root cause still cannot be identified? 
Ans: If that’s the case, then we can move to the next step where we want to create a plan of action.


Q18. What do we need to implement the troubleshooting step in the production environment? 
Ans: To be able to do that, we’ll need a plan that not only incorporates the change that we want to make, but also allows us to revert back if we run into any problems. 


Q19. What should be done if something unexpected happens during the implementation of the plans? 
Ans: You can roll everything back to the original configuration.


Q20. Do the change control board give us a time and a date to make the change?
Ans. Yes


Q21. : What should be done if there is limited time to fix the application issue? 
Ans: We may need to pull in additional resources to help perform multiple functions simultaneously. 


Q22. How can you tell if the fix worked? 
Ans: Once the fix has been implemented, we still don’t know if it’s actually fixed the problem. And the only way to tell is by performing some tests. 


Q23. What do we need to do after resolving an issue? 
Ans: We have to be sure that we document everything that we did, not only because we need some way to confirm the changes we made, but later on if we run into this problem again, we’ll have some documentation that will tell us how we resolved it last time. 


Q24. Most environments will have help desk software or _______________that’s perfect for adding this documentation so that everyone will have access to this data.
Ans. Knowledge-based software 


Q25. What is the troubleshooting process? 
Ans: We start with a system or application that’s broken, we identify and gather information about what the problem is with this system, and then create a list or set of theories on what we think might be causing this issue. 


Q26. What do we need to do before implementing a plan to fix the issue during the troubleshooting process?
Ans. Once we get a slot from the change control board, we can implement the plan. And once it’s implemented, we can verify that all of the system is working as expected.