9_SAS On Introduction to IP
Self -Assessment Sheet


1. What is Internet Protocol (IP)?
IP is the set of rules governing the format of data sent via the internet or local network.
        
2. What is the meaning of Encapsulation?
It's a process that allows us to move all kinds of data across the network.        
3. What does TCP stand for?
Transmission Control Protocol  
      
4. How does TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) work?
It is designed to send packets across the internet and ensure the successful delivery of data and messages over the network. 
        
5. What does UDP stand for?
User Datagram Protocol   
     
6. How does UDP (User Datagram Protocol) work?
UDP simply sends data from one place to the other. And it’s a very simple transaction to be able to send information across the network.

7. What is OSI Layer 4?
TCP or UDP is operating at the transport layer of the OSI model. Sometimes we refer to this as OSI layer 4.

8. What does OSI Layer 4 - Transport Layer do?
It simply sent across the network with no type of acknowledgement that data was received on the other side. 

9. What is Multiplexing?
Multiplexing provides many different applications on your system communicating to a separate server all simultaneously. 

10. What is a port?
A port in networking is a software defined number associated with a network protocol that receives or transmits communications for specific services. 

11. What is a Port Number?
A port number is a way to identify a specific process to which an internet or other network message is to be forwarded when it arrives at a server.

12. What does IPv4 Socket consist of?
The network prefix and the host number

13. What are Non-Ephemeral Ports?
Ports that are permanent

14. What are Ephemeral Ports?
Ephemeral ports are temporary port numbers

15. What is Data Transport Analogy?
Providing transport from one end to another. 

16. What is Network Topology?
It is the physical and logical arrangement of nodes and connections in a network.