12_SAS ON Software Defined Networking
Self-Assessment Sheet


1. What is Software Defined Networking (SDN)?
With software denied networking, we take those devices like switches, routers, firewalls and other networking infrastructure devices and we change them to be a software based platform that we could use in the cloud.  
      
2. What are Computer Networking Planes?
There are commonly three layers or three ways to separate these devices so that we can create some consistency across all of these network components. 
        
3. What is Data Plane?
It is common that this data plane would do the forwarding, the trunking, the encrypting, the network address translation, or anything else that needs to occur at that packet level. 
       
4. What is Control Plane?
If you have dynamic routing protocols, a forwarding table in a switch, a network address translation table in a router, all of those are contained in the control plane.  
       
5. What is Management Plane?
When yo SSH into a router, when you bring up a graphical front end of a firewall, you’re managing that device from the management plane.     
   
6. What is Software Defined Networking Controller (SDN Controller)?
With software defined networking, we take those devices like switches, routers, firewalls, and other networking infrastructure devices and we change them to be a software based platform that we could use in the cloud. 
        
7. What is Distributed Control Planes?
Distributed control plane means that control plane of all networking devices lies within the device itself.    
    
8. What is Controller Based Networking?
In a controller based networking architecture, the controller needs to communicate to the networking devices.    
    
9. What is a Routed Port?
Routed ports are used for point-to-point links. Connecting WAN routers and security devices are examples of the use of routed ports.  
      
10. What is OpenFlow?
OpenFlow is a protocol that allows a server to tell network switches where to send packets.