DV500_49_SAS On Inkjet Printers
Self-Assessment Sheets


Q1. What type of printer is usually found at home? 
Ans: It’s probably an inkjet printer.


Q2. What are the advantages of using an inkjet printer? 
Ans: Inkjet printers are relatively inexpensive which make them perfect for a printer that you might use occasionally at home.


Q3. What are the drawbacks of using an inkjet printer? 
Ans: Replacing the ink cartridges in the printer are relatively expensive, and the cartridges themselves are proprietary and only available from the printer manufacturer.


Q4. The ink used in inkjet printers tends to fade rapidly over time and can easily clog. (True/False)
Ans. True


Q5. What are the components color of the ink used in inkjet printers? 
Ans: These are often described as CMYK which would stand for the cyan, magenta, yellow, and black.


Q6. What is an integrated print head? 
Ans: Some of those ink cartridges are not just there to contain ink, but if you were to look at the bottom of the ink cartridge, they also incorporate an integrated print head.


Q7. What does an integrated print head do? 
Ans: This allows you to change the cartridge to get new ink and at the same time replace and get a brand new print head every time.


Q8. Where is the printhead located? 
Ans: That’s on the bottom of the cartridge.


Q9. What is found on the front of an inkjet printer? 
Ans: Many inkjet printers will have a paper tray or a place to put paper on the front of the printer, and that paper is pulled through the printer with the feed rollers.


Q10. What do the feed rollers do? 
Ans: The feed rollers pull papers. 


Q11. Why should the feed rollers be maintained? 
Ans: These rollers will need to be cleaned and maintained so that the paper will easily be pulled through the printer.


Q12. What is a duplexer? 
Ans: With duplexing, the printer can print on both sides of the page without you doing any type of intervention during the print process.


Q13. How does a duplexer work? 
Ans: There’s usually some type of mechanism within the printer that allows it to flip the page over and send it back through the printing process.


Q14. What can be seen inside an inkjet printer? 
Ans: You can see the carriage is on the right side, and there's this brown belt that is used to be able to pull that carriage back and forth across the paper. 


Q15. What is inkjet printer calibration? 
Ans: To be able to properly align all of these different colors, you may want to perform an inkjet printer calibration. 


Q16. Why do you use the calibration option? 
Ans: This will create an outputted page, and from there, you can make decisions on how you would like to modify where these print heads may be printing.  


Q17. What does a calibration page from an inkjet printer look like? 
Ans: It’s using the CMYK on the printed paper. 


Q18. When we know that printer is very well aligned and calibrated?
Ans: We zoom up on that, we can see that all of the corners are very crisp. Each color is exactly where we would expect it to be which means that this printer is very well aligned and calibrated.


Q19. Why do we use Brown belt in printer?
Ans. The brown belt that is used to be able to pull that carriage back and forth across the paper.


Q20. What does CMYK stand for?
Ans.  Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Black.