DV500_54_SAS On Impact Printer Maintenance
Self-Assessment Sheet


Q1. What is inside a dot matrix printer? 
Ans: On a dot matrix printer, there is an ink ribbon that’s inside of that printer that is one long piece of fabric.


Q2. How does the ink in a printer ribbon get used up? 
Ans:  It’s going around and around and around to be able to provide the ink that you need to create the output on the page. 


Q3. How can the issue of a ribbon cartridge being worn out be resolved? 
Ans:  To resolve this, you’ll need to replace the entire ribbon cartridge. 


Q4. What causes a dot matrix printhead to fail? 
Ans: The printhead is constantly hitting those pins against the printed page. That constant movement will cause this printhead eventually to fail.


Q5. Do we need to replace the entire printhead if it eventually fails?
Ans. Yes, you’ll need to replace the entire printhead.


Q6. What is the purpose of the container for the printhead? 
Ans: It contains heatsinks to be able to pull the heat away from the printhead and dissipate that into the air.


Q7. What is a printhead? 
Ans: The printhead is a component in a printer that houses ink cartridges. 


Q8. What should be done when replacing a printhead? 
Ans: If you are replacing the printhead, make sure you’re very careful not to burn yourself.


Q9. How is replacing paper in a dot matrix printer different from replacing paper in a laser printer or inkjet printer? 
Ans: Replacing paper in a dot matrix printer can be somewhat trickier than replacing printer on a laser printer or an inkjet printer.


Q10. What type of paper is typically used in a dot matrix printer? 
Ans: You’re probably using paper that has tractor feed holes on the side to be able to pull the paper through the printer. 


Q11. What is necessary when replacing this paper into the printer? 
Ans: When you’re replacing this paper into the printer, you need to make sure it is straight and lined up perfectly and that the holes on the feed are connecting with the holes on the paper.


Q12. What should you check before using a tractor feed in the printer? 
Ans:  You also have to make sure that nothing is in the way of the paper feed.


Q13. What if you’re sure that the paper has been installed properly?
Ans.  Once you’re sure that the paper has been installed properly and that the holes in the paper are lining up with the holes of the tractor feed, you can push the paper feed button and continue with the printing process.