29_SAS_SCSI Device Cables 
Self-Assessment Sheet


Q1. What does SCSI stand for?
Ans Small Computer Systems Interface.


Q2. What is a SCSI interface? 
Ans: This is a standard interface that can be used to connect to storage devices, scanners, printers, and other devices on your network.


Q3. What was the purpose of creating the SCSI interface? 
Ans: This was originally designed so that you can have many devices connected to one single interface on your computer by daisy chaining multiple devices together.


Q4. How many devices can be connected to one SCSI chain? 
Ans: 16 devices.


Q5. What is the newest SCSI standard? 
Ans: One of the netwest standards is iSCSI or SCSI over IP.


Q6. What types of connectivity does SCSI support? 
Ans: It can support both parallel and serial connectivity.


Q7. How many devices could a single SCSI interface support on a narrow bus? 
Ans: Eight different SCSI devices.


Q8. What was used to connect our scanners and CD-ROM drives before SATA and USB? 
Ans: SCSI


Q9. What is one of the benefits of SCSI and its protocols? 
Ans: It is a very intelligent form of connectivity.


Q10. Are SCSI protocols still used today? 
Ans: No


Q11. What is the 68 pin connector commonly used for? 
Ans: It plugs into the motherboard.

Q12. What is the purpose of having a single interface on a computer? 
Ans: When you have a single interface on your computer that you’re connecting multiple devices to, you need some way to be able to differentiate between all of these separate devices you’re connecting to the same cable.


Q13. What is the purpose of a SCSI ID? 
Ans: Every device you would connect to that particular SCSI cable you would have a separate ID number associated with it.


Q14. How does SCSI allow for connectivity to a drive array? 
Ans: It’s a single chassis with many different drives inside of it. 


Q15. What is the purpose of a SCSI terminator? 
Ans: The SCSI terminator allows you to have multiple devices on this wire and still be able to communicate across all of those devices simultaneously.


Q16. What is a logical unit? 
Ans: Logical unit allows you to reference a single drive within a much larger SCSI device.


Q17. What is a newer SCSI standard? 
Ans: A serial attached SCSI or SAS. These devices are much simplified over the older SCSI configurations that require you to manually set a SCSI ID and to always have a terminator on the connection.


Q18. Is there anything required to use a SAS device? 
Ans: With these newer SAS devices, you don’t have to worry about setting jumpers for SCSI IDs.


Q19. What can be seen on the back of an external SCSI storage device? 
Ans: It has a spot for power.


Q20. Are there any buttons to modify the SCSI ID? 
Ans: There are buttons on the device that allow you to modify the SCSI ID to prevent any conflicts on that same cable.


Q21. What does a SCSI controller look like when you look inside a computer? 
Ans: If you look inside a computer that has a SCSI controller and multiple SCSI hard drives, you’ll probably see the SCSI controller set to a SCSI ID of 0.


Q22. What does the SCSI terminator look like? 
Ans: At the end of the cable is a SCSI terminator. This is what the SCSI terminator looks like that is connected to the end of that SCSI cable.


Q23. What replaced the need for cables with multiple interfaces and devices with multiple SCSI interfaces? 
Ans: The only thing on the serial attached SCSI connection is the controller on one side and the hard drive or storage device on the other.